Expand "Configure a lifecycle policy" docs (#1906)
elastic/docs-content: manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/policy-apply.md

---
navigation_title: Apply a policy to an index
applies_to:
  stack: ga
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
---

# Apply a lifecycle policy to an index [apply-policy-manually]

When you create new {{es}} index you can use an index template to apply the lifecycle policy by which the index will be managed. This process is described in [Configure a lifecycle policy](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/configure-lifecycle-policy.md).

> You can also manually apply a lifecycle policy to an existing index, as described here. If an index is currently managed by an ILM policy you must first remove that policy before applying a new one. Refer to [Switch to a different lifecycle policy](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/policy-updates.md#switch-lifecycle-policies) for details.

Reviewer: "as described here" doesn't link anywhere, should it?

You can do this procedure in {{kib}} or using the {{es}} API.

::::{warning}

> Do not manually apply a policy that uses the rollover action to an index which has not yet rolled over. Otherwise, the policy may not be carried forward when the rollover action creates a new index.

Reviewer: 🙈 Sorry, why not as long as the template is setup to catch?

Author: This is the note as it appears in the current docs [here](https://www.elastic.co/docs/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/configure-lifecycle-policy#apply-policy-manually):

<img width="667" alt="rollover-action-note" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f07f3bb5-59f8-47ac-bb48-11fa5fa66f36" />

---

Please let me know if you think we should rephrase it somehow, or otherwise I can just remove it.

> Do not manually apply a policy that uses the rollover action to an index which has not yet rolled over. Otherwise, the policy may not be carried forward when the rollover action creates a new index.

Author: ```suggestion
Do not manually apply a policy that uses the rollover action. Policies that use rollover must be applied by the [index template](#apply-policy-template). Otherwise, the policy is not carried forward when the rollover action creates a new index.
```

Reverting to original text.

::::

::::{tab-set}
:group: kibana-api
:::{tab-item} {{kib}}
:sync: kibana

To apply a lifecycle policy to an existing index:

1. Go to **Stack Management > Index Management**. In the **Indices** tab, search for and select the index that you created, for example `test-00001`. Enable **Include hidden indices** to see the full list of indices.

1. From the **Manage index** dropdown menu select **Add lifecycle policy**.

1. Choose a lifecycle policy and confirm your changes.

Once the policy is applied, {{ilm-init}} starts managing the index immediately.
:::

:::{tab-item} API
:sync: api

> Use the [update settings API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-indices-put-settings) to apply a lifecycle policy to an index.

Reviewer: Question on what you're going for vs what I'd expect this section to append: 

when you apply an ILM policy it _always_ sequentially runs from the top (so `hot` maybe `rollover`) so _even if_ your index previously rolled over or something and you apply a new ilm policy or one for the first time, you're going back to the top of the queue. so if you may actually want the `rollover_alias` and/or `indexing_complete` mentioned before and/or do an ILM Move step to move to wherever in the new policy flow you want to be.

---
navigation_title: Apply a policy to an index
applies_to:
  stack: ga
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
---

# Apply a lifecycle policy to an index [apply-policy-manually]

When you create new {{es}} index you can use an index template to apply the lifecycle policy by which the index will be managed. This process is described in [Configure a lifecycle policy](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/configure-lifecycle-policy.md).

You can also manually apply a lifecycle policy to an existing index, as described here. You can do this in {{kib}} or using the {{es}} API.

::::{important}

> Do not manually apply a policy that uses the rollover action. Policies that use rollover must be applied by the index template. Otherwise, the policy is not carried forward when the rollover action creates a new index.

Reviewer: This statement is good advice & also we apply policies with rollover all the time in Support outside the template. I believe your call out is to not apply a policy to an index where rollover has yet to occur.

Ex: index 1+2 associated to policy A, policy A removed from 1 for manual intervention (ex rehydrating frozen tier), policy A re-added to 1, 1 ILM Move Step pushed past rollover.

Author: Thanks for the explanation! I'm still not sure exactly what the warning should be (it's from the current docs), so based on what you've said I've changed it to:

> WARNING: Do not manually apply a policy that uses the rollover action to an index which has not yet rolled over. Otherwise, the policy may not be carried forward when the rollover action creates a new index.

::::

::::{tab-set}
:group: kibana-api
:::{tab-item} {{kib}}
:sync: kibana

To apply a lifecycle policy to an existing index:

> 1. Go to **Stack Management > Index Management**. In the **Indices** tab, search for and select the index that you created, for example `test-00001`. Note that to view system indices you need to enable **Include hidden indices**.

Reviewer: Also can you even add ILM policies to most system indices? It's restricted now (like for `.security*` but for some like `.reporting*` it doesn't stop you but then errors into infinity).

> 1. Go to **Stack Management > Index Management**. In the **Indices** tab, search for and select the index that you created, for example `test-00001`. Note that to view system indices you need to enable **Include hidden indices**.

Author: Changed to `Enable **Include hidden indices** to see the full list of indices.`

1. From the **Manage index** dropdown menu select **Add lifecycle policy**.

1. Choose a lifecycle policy and confirm your changes.

Once the policy is applied, {{ilm-init}} starts managing the index immediately.
:::

:::{tab-item} API
:sync: api
Use the [update settings API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-indices-put-settings) to apply a lifecycle policy to one or more indices.

## Apply a policy to a single index [apply-policy-single]

In the following request, the `index.lifecycle.name` setting specifies an index’s policy.

```console
PUT my-index
{
  "settings": {
    "number_of_shards": 1,
    "number_of_replicas": 1,
    "index.lifecycle.name": "my_policy" <1>
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer: You can't not do `PUT my-index/_settings` to update. Ex your current would error `resource_already_exists_exception` like
<img width="836" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5424858d-1e45-4343-b788-ef48ed284cd1" />

Author: Thanks! I've fixed this to use:

```
PUT my-index/_settings
{
  "index": {
    "lifecycle": {
      "name": "my_ilm_policy"
    }
  }
}
```

The example is from our current docs so it must not be working. :-(
